---
layout: post
title: week 13 PR SUBMITTED LIKEEEE
---

I finally got [my PR](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/25881) submitted !!!!! :D
<!--more-->

oppiabot, a helper bot for the Oppia code repository which automatically reviews PRs, said something is wrong with my PR but I'm not sure why, since I thought I did what I asked. There are a lottttt of automated tests that need to run, and it takes way too long for me to run on my computer, so I pushed my commit with the --no-verify argument because I wanted to be able to go to bed tonight before submitting the PR, and because the tests will run on Github anyways. Unfortunately, I think a reviewer has to look at my PR first and then choose to run the tests, so I won't know if there are issues with my PR until a reviewer sees it.

This PR ended up being a lot more complicated than I expected, since I did not initially anticipate having to write test cases for my code. I found working on this issue to be fairly difficult, since I had to largely depend on a strategy of pattern recognition on the [existing merged PR](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/22396) for a part of the same issue as me and applying it to my part. It's hard to understand the purpose of this code I'm writing, since it is clearly part of a large-scale, long-term, architectural change that the maintainer of the issue has not clearly explained. 

Additionally, it's my first time doing a lot of this type of work, so it's been a fairly steep learning curve. I have almost no experience writing Python, first of all, I've never worked with such a large codebase, I've never had to follow such strict linting/stylization requirements, and I've never had to write test cases like this. I've had a lot of struggles with the linter!!! And it's pretty annoying how I've spent more time waiting for tests to run than actually writing code. Even after figuring out how to just run test cases for the one specific file I'm changing, it just takes so so so so so long. I'll change a line, wait like 3-5 minutes, and then change one more line, and then wait like 3-5 minutes, and then do it again and again. It's not fun!!! And I have no idea how to do these tests using a debugger, since it's like linting and stuff. But hopefully this PR is able to be merged :,>