---
layout: post
title: week 14 ☹☹☹sad face☹☹☹☹☹☹☹☹☹
---

So, unfortunately, [my PR](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/25881) could not be merged first try with no feedback...</3
<!--more-->

The person who was maintaining the issue and assigning people to it is not the same person who is reviewing my issue, which I thought was interesting. Regardless, there is !!!somebody!!! looking at my issue, thankfully, but there were some issues with my original PR. The backend tests I wrote weren't sufficient, since they didn't end up reaching every line of code I wrote, so I had to write more. I didn't even know there was a formal, measurable system for this to be seen. I had to generate a backend test coverage report for my code to see which lines my tests didn't reach. I thought that was pretty cool !!! Never done that before and it was fun to learn.

Before that, I had to fix the formatting of my PR, which I realized I had made some mistakes in. I found it a little challenging to know how exactly how I had to format it, because there is a template you are given, it's just that there are ways you *can* deviate from it, and ways that you *can't*. It was hard for me to tell the difference at first.

After I fixed the backend test coverage, I realized I never ran some other tests on my commit, and the test suite on Github failed because of it. I fixed the issue and added another new commit to the PR. Unfortunately, this was not enough! The reviewer told me to refactor the codebase so that my newly implemented domain object is used in place of the preexisting datastore model. I also had to clarify to the reviewer the purpose of some of my code, but that exchange went fine.

I think my group members are also struggling with contributing to Oppia .... </3