---
layout: post
title: week 15 SEMESTER ENDŌśģSUMMER SMASHŌśģPROJECT PRESENTATIONSŌśģHOLY MOLY
---

I'm really happy with the presentation my groupmates and I made!!!!
<!--more-->

It's pretty funny, and there's a very cool drawing of a fortress that Alexey made. I haven't made a ton of progress on my PR itself, since it's been busy for me near the end of the semester, and I figured it was time to focus on the presentation itself. By now, we are all pretty sick of Oppia at this point. It is a fairly negative presentation :,> but there is a lot of humor in it!

It was great seeing all of the work the other groups in the class have done! It was especially cool seeing the p5.js presentation, because I had to learn it in my first semester of college for a course I took called Creative Computing, since it is a foundation course for the Interactive Media Arts major. It's cool that contributing to p5.js itself is also clearly made to have pedagogical value, in the same way that using p5.js for creative coding has pedagogical value. Their outdoor meetings on sunny days seemed fun too. Actually, after class one day this week, Alexey, Sasha, and I got lunch together and ate while sitting in the grass at Washington Square Park. I don't have a ton of friends in the computer science program (most of my friends are in IMA), so it was really cool making more friends in this class :D

I also enjoyed the Frosty presentation, since I used to watch Twitch pretty often, but had never heard of the project before. I also might look into using Affine even though the presenters said they probably won't start using it, since I currently use a mix of Obsidian for complex project ideation and Notepad for writing lyrics, small homework assignments, and isolated, small-scale things in general.