---
layout: post
title: week 3 : teaming up!
---


I am working in a group with two other students to create our first (my first, at least) open source project !! We started off by following [this tutorial](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/get-started/tutorial/hello-world) to learn the basics of making Chrome browser extensions, since that is what the project will be, and we looked through the [Chrome Extensions samples repository](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-extensions-samples/) to gain an understanding of things typical to open source projects e.g. a README.md file, a  LICENSE file, and a code of conduct. We also looked a bit through existing browser extensions. One that I have been using since forever is [Picture-in-Picture](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/picture-in-picture-extens/hkgfoiooedgoejojocmhlaklaeopbecg/reviews), which lets you play videos as floating windows. I like doing multiple things at once and receiving as much overlapping visual and auditory stimuli as possible, so this is nice 🧟‍♀️.

We have not made a ton of progress on our project yet. We are still settling on a final idea. However, we have established a clear, asynchoronous way to communicate outside of class about the project, which is good. We plan on finalizing our roles and what we are going to make on Monday, February 9. I'm excited to make a project as a group! I haven't really done many collaborative programming projects, and even in collaborative, multidisciplinary work, I usually get assigned the task of programming, instead of it being a shared task. I think it'll be fun (^ム^)