---
layout: post
title: week 12 . . .business
---

Unfortunately, I was out sick on Monday with a fever. However, I did read through the class's lecture slides about the business models built around open source projects.
<!--more-->

I was particularly interested by the section about the commodity layer versus the differentiation layer. I thought the case studies provided were pretty cool, and they made me think about how this specific line of thinking is definitely why [STMicroelectronics open source software](https://github.com/stmicroelectronics) exists at all. STMicroelectronics provides firmware packages for each of their development boards that support microcontroller development. Very notably, there is [HAL](https://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/um1725-description-of-stm32f4-hal-and-lowlayer-drivers-stmicroelectronics.pdf), the hardware abstraction layer, which is a set of C drivers that simplify development. For instance, there are the GPIO HAL APIs, which allow for configuring and using GPIO (General Purpose Input/Output) pins easily.

It's definitely very good that these firmware packages exist!!!! It's definitely beneficial for companies that use STMicroelectronics's proprietary hardware, since they can focus on the differentiation layer, and STMicroelectronics itself is able to make money developing this open source software because it is built to be used on their proprietary hardware which they sell. If anything, the fact that these firmware packages exist, and are tools that need to be learned for embedded development, probably further solidifies STMicroelectronics's place in the market, since developing on their hardware is a major skill that is encouraged to be learned to get a job. It's like a self-fulfilling prophecy; it's like how Adobe kind of depends on people pirating their products, so that using Adobe is a common industry skillset, so that companies hire people who previously pirated Adobe, and Adobe ends up making money in the end.