---
layout: post
title: week 11&#58; cathedrals/bazaars/PRs 
---

Eric Steven Raymond's essay "[The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/)" offers an analysis of Linux's success through a core metaphor that opposes two different model of software development: the "cathedral" model and the "bazaar" model. While cathedral-style development is "carefully crafted" by a small number of experts, "with no beta", bazaar-style development is the opposite. Releases happen very often and the work is done by a myriad of different people with "differing agendas and approaches". 
<!--more-->

I don't have much to say on the efficacy of bazaar-style development. Clearly, it works. It worked for Linux, and it worked for Raymond's project fetchmail. It works! And I think it's beautiful that it works. It makes me happy that the building of such humongous, impressive systems could be a feat of human connection and community and diversity in thought, rather than a feat of exceptional, individual genius. And I think this is true even when one person gets most of the credit for the project; I mean, I literally called fetchmail Raymond's project, not the people's, but that wasn't meant to undermine the importance of every other contributor.

Although, as AI-generated code becomes more and more common, I think there are some new challenges in the open-source world that didn't really exist before. In the thread of the issue I requested to work on, I noticed one account trying to request an issue that was clearly outputting [the results of an LLM](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/21970#issuecomment-4032348417). It's first message in the thread starts with "This is a substantial refactoring effort! A few recommendations based on the existing patterns:", and then there isn't even an issue request. One of my groupmates was saying that even though it looks like a lot of open issues have PRs and a bunch of comments, it's because a very significant portion of them are AI slop, not because the maintainers don't care or because the PR is good. This seems like a problem to me! It seems that maintainers' increasingly have to spend their time sorting through AI-generated slop when that time could have been spent reviewing issues or real PRs. I also think the fact that vibe coding is becoming more prevalent will, to some extent, homogenize people's programming styles and general thinking processes. If part of the value of bazaar-style, open-source development is the variety of "agendas and approaches", I think generative AI reduces this.

Speaking of the same issue I linked in my last paragraph: I have been working on the issue I was assigned in that thread. I think I am almost ready to submit a PR! [Here's](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/compare/develop...witchlet:oppia:develop) what I've written. Next, I need to make sure the rest of the codebase uses my new domain object instead of the preexisting storage model. I'm hoping to submit this PR and request a new issue before Wednesday. I think I could've already submitted the PR, but on Thursday, I woke up with a really bad fever. I was, like, bedridden, and I basically didn't do any work at all from then until Sunday. I've been catching up on work, but I'm still thankful I allowed myself to rest. I couldn't really think straight anyways.

Everyone in my group is sort of at a different level of progress. My teammates are also working on contributing translations to Oppia, which is really cool, but I can't do that, since I'm only fluent in English. Procrastinating learning Tagalog and not practicing Spanish since high school is really biting me right now!!! Although, I'm confident I'll find my own contributions to farm even though I can't do that.

I'm happy for all the other groups and the work that they've been able to accomplish so far! :D I noticed that it seemed like the other groups didn't really talk of "requesting" issues, and it seemed like people just work on issues and then submit a PR in other groups. Some of my groupmates were talking about being able to do that for other issues in Oppia as well. I might try doing that. It seems like everyone is progressing nicely.